Git
VCS(Version Control System) is one feature of Git
It is a tool created by Linus Torwalds who is also the creator of Linux Kernel

It is used as a SCM(SOurce Code Management Tool) in the industries for maintaing 
and managing business source code


Architecture

Git architecture is composed of three components
Workspace: termed as local or server system in which we write code and create files
Staging Area: Does not contains actual data but behind the scenes keep track
of the modified, deleted , updated and added data using the tracker 
Commit Area: The main area where the backup or we can more clearly say snapshot 
is taken which only consists of delta which is the only data which is maodified
and refernce to the previous commit is stored.

The whole concept of snapshot come around to save the memory utilization
The same concept is used by AWS in snapshots

The marker is given to the data in staging area for different modifications
like update,delete,added pr modified and indexes them so that it can be commited 
accordingly


Now coming to actual commands

1. git init: You need to execute this command in order to create a repository which
consists of hiddene staging and commit area in order for the git to function

2. git add file_nam: This command is used to make the untracked file inside the 
workspace as tracked which means it comes into staging area

3. git commit -m "Your_mesage" file_name: This command is used to take the snapshot of 
the file so that we create  backup of it .

4.git status: For checking the status of tracked and untracked file you can use
this command

5. git log: to check the log of the commited file which contains the head pointer
to the current commit. A unique large encoded code to the different commits
with their timestamp with the message that we passed during commiting

6. git reflog: to get a shorter version of the log command you can use this

7. git reset commit_id: this command is used to change the position of head pointer
to the commit of which we have passed commit id

8. git checkout file_name: To change the file to the previous commit we have to 
execute this command after the git reset command in order to change the content of
VCS.

9.git config --global user.email "email": To configure the email id for account 
identity

10. git config --global user.name "username": To configure the username for 
account identity
